# Dashboard Stories

The following stories are related to any Member who has access to their personal Dashboard whereby their status is Signed In.

Upon accessing the SMP website and signing in to their account with their email/password credentials, a Member should be able to easily access their personal Dashboard by clicking on their signed-in link (their name in the upper right corner of every view on the SMP website), or via other links or processes on the website that may take them to a specific subview of their Dashboard or the main Dashboard view itself.

Once a Member accesses their Dashboard via their direct link, the Member will be shown a view consisting of the SMP Masthead, the SMP Footer and in the middle a set of tabs listed horizontally in the following order:

* Inspiration Boards
* Favorites
* Comments
* Settings

with the default tabbed view being Inspiration Boards. In addition to the current tabs in the Dashboard view, I would like to introduce the addition of Sharing and Help tabs so that the order would be:

* Inspiration Boards
* Favorites
* Comments
* Sharing
* Settings
* Help

I would reorganize the list as shown above because I think we can categorize the tabs into three distinct sections: Things that live on SMP (Inspiration Boards, Favorites and Comments), things that have been shared and now live elsewhere (Sharing) and things that serve as administrative functions (Settings and Help).

Inspiration Boards I believe carries the most weight of all and should be not only the default view but listed first in order left to right. Favorites are what make up the boards so they should be tightly aligned and Comments are what happen when a fellow Member interacts with the Member's boards or vice-versa. Sharing should live on its own while Settings and Help do not interact with the other Members and serve solely to customize and enhance the Member experience and in all probability are not accessed wuite as frequently as the first four tabs.

||Inspiration Boards|Favorites|Comments|| ||Sharing|| ||Settings|Help||

_Not sure which is most important boards or favorites.  However, I certainly agree that these are the two most important things._

### Inspiration Boards

Currently, when the user activates the link to their Dashboard in the upper right hand corner of the website, they are provided with a view where the Inspiration Boards tab is open by default. A link to the Board Builder FAQ is located beneath the tab menu and to the right of the menu there is also a component labeled Tags where member-generated tabs exist for the purpose of filtering the Inspiration Boards content. The Inspiration Boards, generated by the member are then displayed beneath the tab menu as in time-descending order, three across per row. A default display of an Inspiration Board will consist of:

* board title
* collage of images in the board, linked to board display view
* edit and delete links
* shortened text URL, linked to board display view

Upon clicking either the image collage or the shortened URL, the Member will be shown a view of the board consisting solely of a the Member dashboard links in the upper right of the view, an SMP logo linked to the site homepage, the board title, text author display linked back to the Member profile a Delete and Edit button, a display of the individual images in the board and a Share This Board component featuring the shortened URL mentioned before. In addition, at the bottom of the board, the Member is presented with a Print button that when activated will function according to the Member's browser of choice, an Embed link for third-party websites with a sizing option, a Show color option and a brief explanation for its purpose. Below this, the Member can see a heading titled "Comments".

When a Member hovers over a board image, they are presented with a slide-up view superimposing the image containing information pertinent to each image, text or links. The images themselves are linked to the image's display view under the Gallery, also accessed through the main navigation menu under the tab name Wedding Inspiration. Once the Member has activate the link on the image they have left the Dashboard.

Should the Member select the Delete button, the board will be deleted and the Member redirected to the Inspiration Boards tab view under Dashboard.

Should the Member select the Edit button, they will be taken to a Board Builder view under Gallery. Once the Member has selected the Edit button they have left the Dashboard.

Below the board layout the Member is presented with a Start A Board iconed button that is linked to the Board Builder under Gallery. Once the Member has selected the Start A Board button, they have left the Dashboard.

##### Recommendations for Inspiration Boards

_This is the same as Favorites_ The Inspiration Boards section would benefit from both a visual and functional redesign. To properly tie Favorites in with Inspiration Boards, we would need to offer the Member a choice of how to display the Inspiration Boards (list, group, single, images-only, text-only), even potentially allow them to set a default view, and then allow the Member to further filter the display based on Tags/Categories but in a separate subview that would not produce zero-result filtering at a lower level.

The default view for the Board should occupy the entire width of the view to be four boards across vs. three, in time-descending order as it is now, eliminating the sidebar. The sidebar should be moved to occupy a toolbar area across the top of the tabbed view. (Design to come)

_Also true for favorites I assume._

The FAQ link should be replaced with a contextual Help component linking directly to its content in the Help tab.

There is no functionality that I would add to the Inspiration Boards as what is there now would suffice from both an information gathering perspective as well as a providing the Member with the basic tools in order to edit and delete the content or the Board itself. What I would recommend doing is designing a better way to present the information and the tools so that they remain consistent with Favorites as well as being unobtrusive and easy to use.

What I would recommend adding to the default Inspiration Boards tab view are statistical feedback of how many other Users or Members have favorited each Board individually and allow the Member to sort their boards according to these statistics when in a list view. The Member could then track and compare the popularity of their boards. This information is static.

_Sounds good.  Should we have some sort of points system?_

Once a Member selects a board, they should be presented with a the Board view in default mode. Should the Member select the Edit button, they should be presented with the board view in Edit mode, without being redirected from their dashboard. Upon saving their work, the Member should be redirected back to their default tab view with the edited board at the top of their list together with a visual indicator of a saved board.

Any hovering-inspired functionality should be tested to be in compliance with multiple platforms, browsers and operating systems. Alternatives to the hovering approach could be then considered.

Should the Member select the Delete button, the member should be presented with an interstitial view requiring deletion confirmation, then redirected back to the default tab view along with a visual indicator that their board has been confirmed deleted and removed from their board list. I would not recommend bulk deleting.

I would also recommend moving the Print and Embed functionality to the top of the view in a toolbar configuration. In regards to the Comments section of this view, I would recommend adopting the discussed policy of allowing favoring of the board only, removing comments. The number of favorites should be presented at the top of the page along with other pertinent board information and the avatars of the Members be presented at the top of the page as well, with a maximum of the last ten Members to favorite along with a "more…" link that would show the complete list of members in a separate sub-view. A redesign of this view would also enable SMP to present the board in a more polished manner along with larger images as noted in [Ticket #2039](https://stylemepretty.lighthouseapp.com/projects/34413/tickets/2039-rfc-how-to-make-photos-look-even-better-on-smp).

_Happy to move these. The inspiration board page needs a clean up._

One item to be considered is the public/private nature of the Boards themselves. I would recommend discussing whether a Member should have privileges allowing them to enable or disable public/private viewing of the board and simultaneously shared with a shortened URL, allowing the board to be accessed with said Url if a user has it in their possession. The privacy setting could be included on a board-by-board basis that would overwrite their global privacy settings.

_Happy to move to private boards.  I think all boards are accessible now just not easy to find.

_Any thoughts on dashboard and board urls?_

### Favorites

Currently, when the Member selects the Favorites tab they see a time descending list of items that they have favorited on SMP displaying for each favorite

* lead-in image linked to the entity
* title of the favorite for Vendor and Post
* applicable vendor promotion if available
* meta information surrounding the favorite depending on the type of entity
* visual favorite indicator with ability to edit favorite status (widget)
* a numbered indicator denoting the times a member has favorites the item (post and image)
* type of entity text indicator (post, vendor, image)

In addition, when the member selects the favorite widget, they can choose to either unfavorite or edit the entity. Unfavoriting an entity will make it disappear from the Member's list and editing will prompt an overlay to appear which will allow the Member to adjust the categories and tags for the entity prior to saving it again.

To the right of the favorites list, the Member can see two additional lists in the sidebar titled "Tags" and "Categories" which display text links according to their selection by Member.

Atop the Favorites list, the Member has four text links (all, posts, images, vendors) that serve to filter the list according to the Member's selection, one at a time.

As it stands, the Favorite list shows items that have been collected on their own outside of any higher context on the SMP site. They could become part of a Member-built board, but they are not as of yet necessarily. They are not grouped according to a Member-specified hierarchy which would allow for further categorization, separation of multiple events or duplication of favorites within groups. Also, different items favorites from one entity will show up on their own instead of having their relationship implied in the list. Sharing is another another factor buried inside the favorite itself. On images and posts the Member can discern how many other members have favorites the item, but the same does not apply to Vendor nor does the Member know who else has favorites the item, giving little or no value to the numeric indicator.

##### Recommendations for Favorites

The favorites section would benefit from both a visual and functional redesign. To properly tie Favorites in with Inspiration Boards, we would need to offer the Member a choice of how to display the Favorites (list, group, single, images-only, text-only), even potentially allow them to set a default view, and then allow the Member to further filter the display based on Tags/Categories but in a separate subview that would not produce zero-result filtering at a lower level.

_Great!_

Secondly, I propose to unify the layout of the favorite, regardless of type. Each favorite should have the following:

* lead-in image (linked back to the entity it came from)
* title with link back to the entity it came from (vendor profile to be addressed later)
* A description of the Favorite with a link to additional info at its source ("more…")
* Separate Favorite/Unfavorite and Edit links
* Link the numeric favorite indicator to a list of other Members who have favorites the item, should they allow for public viewing of their Favorites.
* An additional link for sharing via email, URL or social media.

Most importantly, the layout and functionality of the Favorites should mimic the Inspiration Boards as closely as possible, as the boards are nothing but a collection of Favorites to begin with.

_Should we allow people to favorite each other's boards?  I would probably do this before I allowing people to comment on each other's boards.  Let's talk about it._

### Comments

Currently, a Member sees a time-descending order of the comments that they have made on other website entities, displaying 

* lead-in image for the entity (image, unlinked)
* text link to the entity
* text date on which comment was made
* text display of the comment
* "Reply" link back to the entity with "#respond" added to the link on hover

however it appears that the comments only reflect those made on published stories in the main blog and the Little Black Book blog as comments cannot be made on the Member's boards (a "Comments" heading exists but no input fields are visible).

##### Recommendations for Comments

* Allow for comments to be made on Inspiration Boards
* Display comments made by the Member on their or other's Inspiration Boards
* Display comments made by others on the Member's Inspiration Boards
* Display the number of new comments made to the entity since their last visit
* Reduce the size of the lead-in image and link it to the appropriate entity
* Display the avatar and username of the Member making the comment
* Allow the Member to reply to another's comment directly from their Comments tab
* Allowing the user to Favorite a comment.

_The only big question here is now to handle spam if we open up comments on other boards. I can run all comments through a spam filter but we're still going to have false negatives.  Should we allow the owner of each board the ability to moderate it?  Some of the comments on Pinterest can be pretty nasty._

If an Inspiration Board is going to be more than a visual element and take on the role as conversation piece and traffic generator for the site, Members should be allowed to make comments on those boards and be able to keep track of those conversations in one place alongside those comments that they make on other entities and comments made by other Members on their Inspiration Boards.

To further strengthen the bond between Members, displaying the username and avatar of the commenting Member would provide visual context and recognition to the membership as a whole and would allow for the Member to make a choice whether to respond or ignore through a self-learning cycle. It would also serve to promote membership through the comments.

Allowing the Member to respond to comments directly from their Comments tab would greatly reduce the time required for response and would allow a Member to make multiple responses in context while simultaneously tracking additional interactions. A Member could manage multiple conversations from the tab without having multiple browser windows open.

Favoriting a comment would also encourage Members to further participate in the conversation as they would be able to save comments that have special meaning or additional information contained within (links) and the Member would also be able to track their favorite comments in one place. This can be accomplished by simple filtering. Additionally, when a Member is alerted that their comment has been favorites, it's a positive reward for their ego, prompting them to try even harder to please the audience on their subsequent comments.

_I like the idea of favoriting a comment mostly b/c it allows users the ability to save comments.  There are lots of useful info in comments about where to buy items from a post.  The BIG question is now best to show display comment questions.  Should I forward two comments (question + answer)?  Can we associate answers with questions.

_I really like the idea of telling people when their comment was favorited.  Love the encouragement._

At this time I would not recommend threading in the comments as the subject matter for each entity is rather homogeneous to SMP and does not require multiple threads addressing a variety of issues. Further along I would poll the membership in regards to threading.

Lastly, I would recommend that all comments, regardless of where they are made and by whom should contain the exact same layout and information and be sorted time-descending under the Comments tab with filtering made available and visible within the tab.

### Settings

A Member should be able to see the following fields under their Settings tab:

* Username (immutable)
* Email Address (currently immutable) 
* First Name (input:text field - mutable)
* Last Name (input:text field - mutable)
* Wedding Date (input:text field - mutable) 
* Wedding City (input:text field - mutable)
* Public Display of Username (input:text field - mutable)
* Profile Type (input:radio field - mutable)
* Newsletter subscription status (input:checkbox field - mutable)
* Password Reset (input:password fields - mutable)
* Settings update (input:submit button)

The above fields should be self-explanatory as they are conventional account settings across the web and the Member should have little trouble understanding the required fields or opting in/out of those that are not.

##### Recommendations for Settings

My recommendations for the Settings tab would be to add explanatory notes for each of the fields to educate and reassure the user as to the benefits of opting in to the optional fields as well as the protection of their privacy. For example, the Email Address field should be accompanied with a note reading something like "Used solely for account notifications".

In regards to specific fields, I would recommend that Email Address be made mutable as people do change addresses however infrequently, that Wedding Date be activated along with a JavaScript calendar widget, that Wedding City also be activated with a JavaScript widget that would locate name/state/country/other and that the Password Reset combination be replaced with a link to a separate view.

In addition to those recommendations, I would also propose adding the following fields to the Settings tab:

* Avatar (image)
* Change Avatar (link)
* Second First Name (input:text field - mutable)
* Second Last Name (input:text field - mutable)
* Current Password (input:password field - mutable)
* Deactivate Account (input:submit button)

_If we alert people via email that someone has favorited their boards or comments then we need some sort of alerts/email configuration.  If we do alerts should we have an "activity feed for each user that is private?_

Adding an avatar to a Member's account would further improve the affinity and sense of belonging if they could see a selected image of themselves and the other Members. To accomplish this I would recommend using Gravatar from the moment the Member activates their account. It is a small gesture that personalizes the experience and not only removes a task from the Member but also reinforces the belief that SMP is progressive on customer service. The Member should also be afforded the opportunity to change their Gravatar with a link to the service or upload an image of their own prior to the final activation of the account. A simple yes/no link would allow the user to skip any avatar changing steps in their workflow but also alert them to the fact that it is mutable in the future (Change Avatar) which should display a separate view exclusively for that purpose.

People do marry and either change or add on to their last name, plus some Members will hail from other cultures where two first names and last names are commonplace and are a required part of their identity. To shorten or otherwise obfuscate a Member's name in lieu of local convention would be counter-productive to a good customer experience. These fields would be optional and if necessary be hidden from view and activated at the request of the Member.

_I have mixed feelings about this.  Instinctively it feels like less fields are better.  If the user needs to stuff two names into one field, will they care?  Can we utilized the second and third name to make their experience better._

To add a Current Password field to the Password Reset component would further reinforce account security and should the Member have forgotten their current password, a reset can be sent via email to the appropriate account.

A Member may not be for life and at times may choose to disconnect themselves from a service. This should be easy to accomplish on the front end by providing a button link that would activate an Account Deactivation view. In this view we can offer the Member two choices: to either disable the account or delete completely. The former should include instructions on how to reactivate the account and the later should include a note from the SMP team thanking them for their patronage and membership in the view. I would refrain from sending them a farewell email as that could be the source of irritation. An invitation to air a grievance could also be included in the note, but the Deactivate Account process should be smooth and final without further pitching the Member.

Although the Settings tab should be self-contained into one single tab, there may be times where it could grow unmanageable and would need separate sub views. In this case, I would recommend removing the Settings tab from the Dashboard and making it stand alone, activated by a link on the Member's name displyed in the upper right corner of all views, as well as the footer.

### Sharing

The addition of a Sharing tab would enable the Member to link their favorite social media account to the SMP account and allow them to configure a method of posting their content (Inspiration Boards) to said social media sites, either manually or automatically. this can be accomplished via an available API. The selection of those social media sites would be up to SMP but I would recommend Facebook and Twitter. Both are widely used and understood by a large population and would provide SMP with higher visibility and direct links back to the website. The implementation of the Sharing tab would be entirely different than adding Like, Share, Tweet or other button currently found on most blogging sites. By associating third-parties to their account a Member can have enhanced control over the content they're publishing externally. At this time Pinterest does not provide an external API service.

In addition, the Member would be provided with validating statistics, also reflected under the Inspiration Boards tab that would encourage the Member to become more prolific and organized in the nature of publishing SMP content. these statistics would reflect the boards published to SMP-only as well.

At any time a Member should be allowed to easily disable a third party association without SMP interferring in the process. Also, the Member should be confident that SMP is going to follow a set of stated guidelines that would not generate negative feedback on the Member's third party network, such as spamming or sharing confidential information or publishing content that the Member considers private.

Potentially, a top sharer within the membership would emerge whose work could be of inspiration to others and worthy of promotion both to internal and external parties.

##### Sharing Stories

* As a Member I would like to enable content sharing with my preferred social media network(s).
* As a Member I would like to have control of enabling/disabling any associated third party accounts.
* As a member I would like to select to either publish my content automatically to third party services or publish them manually one at a time.
* As a Member I would like to receive feedback of my third party publishing via published statistics per each item of content published on SMP and on external sites.
* As a Member I would like to be able to sort my publishing statistics.
* As a Member I would like to be provided with a direct link from my statistics to my content and vice versa.
* As a Member I would like my statistics to be viewable on my individual Inspiration Boards.

### Help

The addition of a Help tab to the Dashboard would assist in differentiating what is essentially a FAQ view available to all Users and contextual Help for the inner workings of the applications tailored to the Member who essentially has no use for a FAQ.

Underneath the Help tab, a Member should be able to find a complete document divided into section with a "How do I…" section at the top that would facilitate navigation to the pertinent section along with a simple index that would guide the Member who is looking for a particular section. the help should include explanations, short tutorials with easy-to-follow guidance and screenshots in order to illustrate what a Member needs to do in order to accomplish a task. The Help should cover all phases of each workflow and limit itself to that. A form for additional information requests should be included if responses are guaranteed from SMP.

For an advanced setting, the Member could select to enable/disable contextual Help within the application.

The Help is typically the last document finished in the application as it will hold all final functionality.

As an aside, should the occasion arise that you would need an application to actually handle help and support, services such as Zendesk to provide it, but for now I think the Help can be managed internally.

##### Help Stories

* As a Member I would like to enable/disable contextual Help in my views.
* As a Member I would like to find access to Help via a direct link on all views of the website.
* As a Member, I would like to read Help that is related to my problem and can provide a solution, not marketing.
* As a Member I would like to find contextual Help within the section of the application that I am working on with a direct link to the pertinent section within the Help tab.
* As a Member I would like to be able to locate easy tutorials that will walk me through using the application with actual results.
* As a Member I would like to be able to locate easy to follow tutorials that can provide me a refrsher when needed.
* As a Member I would like to be able to submit my Help questions to SMP and receive a response within an acceptable time window.